subprojects/griffon-hibernate4-guide/src/asciidoc/usage.adoc, before:


[[_Usage]]
= Usage

The following sections describe how you may use this plugin in an project.

== Configuration

This plugin relies on the {link_griffon_datasource_plugin}. Please follow the instructions to configure this plugin first.

You must create a configuration file named `Hibernate4` that holds the settings for creating instances of `{link_session_factory}`.
This file follows the same standard configuration mechanism as the application's `Config` file, which means you can define the
configuration using

 * a properties file
 * a Java file
 * a Groovy script

The following example shows the default settings needed to connect the default database taking into account that each
environment may connect to a different database.

[source,groovy,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/resources/Hibernate4.groovy
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/test/resources/Hibernate4.groovy[lines=16..33]
----

You may configure multiple named SessionFactories (the default factory is aptly named `default`) as the following snippet
shows

[source,groovy,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/resources/Hibernate4.groovy
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/test/resources/Hibernate4.groovy[lines=35..-1]
----

=== Session Properties

The following table summarizes the properties that can be specified inside a `sessionFactory` block

[cols="4*", options="header"]
|====

| Property | Type | Default | Description

| schema
| String
| create-drop
| Any value accepted by "hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto"

| logSql
| boolean
| false
| Defines value for "hibernate.show_sql"

| formatSql
| boolean
| false
| Defines value for "hibernate.format_sql"

| dialect
| String or Class
|
| Defines value for "hibernate.dialect"

| entityInterceptor
| String or Class
|
|

| namingStrategy
| String or Class
|
|

| props
| Properties or Map
|
|

| mappings
| List
|
| Additional resource mappings

|====

=== Accessing the Datasource

The plugin's <<_modules, module>> registers a `{api_hibernate4_handler}` helper class that defines the base contract
for accessing a datasource and issue SQL queries to it. This class has the following methods

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Handler.java
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/main/java//griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Hibernate4Handler.java[tags=methods,indent=0]
----

These method are aware of multiple datasources. If no sessionFactoryName is specified when calling them then the default
datasource will be selected. You can inject an instance of this class anywhere it's needed using `@Inject`. There is one
callback you may use with this method: `{api_hibernate4_callback}`.

This callback is defined using a functional interface approach, which means you can apply lambda expressions if running
with JDK8+ or closures if running Groovy.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Callback.java
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/main/java/griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Hibernate4Callback.java[lines=25..-1]
----

=== Mappings

Hibernate requires mapping resources for matching classes to tables. The plugin can automatically discover mappings
that should be added to a `{link_session_factory}` as long as they are annotated with `@TypeProviderFor`. For example

[source,groovy,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/groovy/com/acme/Person.groovy
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/test/groovy/griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Person.groovy[lines=16..-1]
----

Don't forget mappings require a matching XML file that contains query definitions, such as

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
[subs="verbatim,attributes"]
.src/main/resources/griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Person.hbm.xml
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/test/resources/griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Person.hbm.xml[lines=18..-1]
----

=== Bootstrap

You may execute arbitrary database calls during connection and disconnection from a `{link_session_factory}`. Simply
create a class that implements the `{api_hibernate4_bootstrap}` interface and register it within a module, for example

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/java/com/acme/SampleHibernate4Bootstrap.java
----
package com.acme;

import griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Bootstrap;
import org.hibernate.Session;

import javax.annotation.Nonnull;
import javax.inject.Named;

@Named("sample")
public class SampleHibernate4Bootstrap implements Hibernate4Bootstrap {
    @Override
    public void init(@Nonnull String sessionFactoryName, @Nonnull Session session) {
        // operations after first connection to datasource
    }

    @Override
    public void destroy(@Nonnull String sessionFactoryName, @Nonnull Session session) {
        // operations before disconnecting from the datasource
    }
}
----

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/java/com/acme/ApplicationModule.java
----
package com.acme;

import griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Bootstrap;
import griffon.core.injection.Module;
import org.codehaus.griffon.runtime.core.injection.AbstractModule;
import org.kordamp.jipsy.ServiceProviderFor;

@ServiceProviderFor(Module.class)
public class ApplicationModule extends AbstractModule {
    @Override
    protected void doConfigure() {
        bind(Hibernate4Bootstrap.class)
            .to(SampleHibernate4Bootstrap.class)
            .asSingleton();
    }
}
----

== Example

The following is a trivial usage of the `{api_hibernate4_handler}` inside a service

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.com.acme.SampleService.java
----
package com.acme;

import griffon.core.artifact.GriffonService;
import griffon.metadata.ArtifactProviderFor;
import org.codehaus.griffon.runtime.core.artifact.AbstractGriffonService;

import griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Handler;
import griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Callback;
import org.hibernate.Session;

import javax.annotation.Nonnull;
import javax.inject.Inject;

@ArtifactProviderFor(GriffonService.class)
public class SampleService extends AbstractGriffonService {
    @Inject
    private Hibernate4Handler hibernate4Handler;

    public String getPersonName(final int id) {
         return hibernate4Handler.withHbm4Session(new Hibernate4Callback<String>() {
             public String handle(@Nonnull String sessionFactoryName, @Nonnull Session session) {
                 Person person = (Person) session.createQuery("from Person where id = " + id).uniqueResult();
                 return person != null ? person.getName() : null;
         });
    }
}
----

== Events

The following events will be triggered by `{api_hibernate4_handler}`

Hibernate4ConnectStart(String sessionFactoryName, Map<String, Object> config):: Triggered before connecting to the datasource.
Hibernate4ConfigurationAvailable(Map<String, Object> options):: Triggered after the session's configuration is ready. The map
contains the following keys:
  * configuration; type=org.hibernate.cfg.Configuration
  * dataSourceName; type=java.lang.String
  * sessionConfiguration; type=java.util.Map
Hibernate4ConnectEnd(String sessionFactoryName, Map<String, Object> config, SessionFactory factory):: Triggered after connecting to the datasource.
Hibernate4DisconnectStart(String sessionFactoryName, Map<String, Object> config, SessionFactory factory):: Triggered before disconnecting from the datasource.
Hibernate4DisconnectEnd(String sessionFactoryName, Map<String, Object> config):: Triggered after disconnecting from the datasource.

NOTE: DataSource events may be triggered during connection and disconnection from a `{link_session_factory}`.

== AST Transformation

You can apply the `{api_hibernate4_aware}` AST transformation on any class. This injects the behavior of `{api_hibernate4_handler}`
into said class.

== DSL Descriptors

This plugin provides DSL descriptors for Intellij IDEA and Eclipse (provided you have the Groovy Eclipse plugin installed).
These descriptors are found inside the `griffon-hibernate4-groovy-compile-{project-version}.jar`, with locations

 * dsdl/griffon_hibernate4.dsld
 * gdsl/griffon_hibernate4.gdsl

Commit message:

Added 'connect_on_startup' settings. Fixes #1

subprojects/griffon-hibernate4-guide/src/asciidoc/usage.adoc, after:


[[_Usage]]
= Usage

The following sections describe how you may use this plugin in an project.

== Configuration

This plugin relies on the {link_griffon_datasource_plugin}. Please follow the instructions to configure this plugin first.

You must create a configuration file named `Hibernate4` that holds the settings for creating instances of `{link_session_factory}`.
This file follows the same standard configuration mechanism as the application's `Config` file, which means you can define the
configuration using

 * a properties file
 * a Java file
 * a Groovy script

The following example shows the default settings needed to connect the default database taking into account that each
environment may connect to a different database.

[source,groovy,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/resources/Hibernate4.groovy
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/test/resources/Hibernate4.groovy[lines=16..33]
----

You may configure multiple named SessionFactories (the default factory is aptly named `default`) as the following snippet
shows

[source,groovy,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/resources/Hibernate4.groovy
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/test/resources/Hibernate4.groovy[lines=35..-1]
----

=== Session Properties

The following table summarizes the properties that can be specified inside a `sessionFactory` block

[cols="4*", options="header"]
|====

| Property | Type | Default | Description

| schema
| String
| create-drop
| Any value accepted by "hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto"

| logSql
| boolean
| false
| Defines value for "hibernate.show_sql"

| formatSql
| boolean
| false
| Defines value for "hibernate.format_sql"

| dialect
| String or Class
|
| Defines value for "hibernate.dialect"

| entityInterceptor
| String or Class
|
|

| namingStrategy
| String or Class
|
|

| props
| Properties or Map
|
|

| mappings
| List
|
| Additional resource mappings

| connect_on_startup
| boolean
| false
| Establishes a connection to the datasource at the end of the `Bootstrap` phase.

|====

=== Accessing the Datasource

The plugin's <<_modules, module>> registers a `{api_hibernate4_handler}` helper class that defines the base contract
for accessing a datasource and issue SQL queries to it. This class has the following methods

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Handler.java
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/main/java//griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Hibernate4Handler.java[tags=methods,indent=0]
----

These method are aware of multiple datasources. If no sessionFactoryName is specified when calling them then the default
datasource will be selected. You can inject an instance of this class anywhere it's needed using `@Inject`. There is one
callback you may use with this method: `{api_hibernate4_callback}`.

This callback is defined using a functional interface approach, which means you can apply lambda expressions if running
with JDK8+ or closures if running Groovy.

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Callback.java
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/main/java/griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Hibernate4Callback.java[lines=25..-1]
----

=== Mappings

Hibernate requires mapping resources for matching classes to tables. The plugin can automatically discover mappings
that should be added to a `{link_session_factory}` as long as they are annotated with `@TypeProviderFor`. For example

[source,groovy,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/groovy/com/acme/Person.groovy
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/test/groovy/griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Person.groovy[lines=16..-1]
----

Don't forget mappings require a matching XML file that contains query definitions, such as

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
[subs="verbatim,attributes"]
.src/main/resources/griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Person.hbm.xml
----
include::{path_griffon_hibernate4_core}/src/test/resources/griffon/plugins/hibernate4/Person.hbm.xml[lines=18..-1]
----

=== Bootstrap

You may execute arbitrary database calls during connection and disconnection from a `{link_session_factory}`. Simply
create a class that implements the `{api_hibernate4_bootstrap}` interface and register it within a module, for example

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/java/com/acme/SampleHibernate4Bootstrap.java
----
package com.acme;

import griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Bootstrap;
import org.hibernate.Session;

import javax.annotation.Nonnull;
import javax.inject.Named;

@Named("sample")
public class SampleHibernate4Bootstrap implements Hibernate4Bootstrap {
    @Override
    public void init(@Nonnull String sessionFactoryName, @Nonnull Session session) {
        // operations after first connection to datasource
    }

    @Override
    public void destroy(@Nonnull String sessionFactoryName, @Nonnull Session session) {
        // operations before disconnecting from the datasource
    }
}
----

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.src/main/java/com/acme/ApplicationModule.java
----
package com.acme;

import griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Bootstrap;
import griffon.core.injection.Module;
import org.codehaus.griffon.runtime.core.injection.AbstractModule;
import org.kordamp.jipsy.ServiceProviderFor;

@ServiceProviderFor(Module.class)
public class ApplicationModule extends AbstractModule {
    @Override
    protected void doConfigure() {
        bind(Hibernate4Bootstrap.class)
            .to(SampleHibernate4Bootstrap.class)
            .asSingleton();
    }
}
----

== Example

The following is a trivial usage of the `{api_hibernate4_handler}` inside a service

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
.com.acme.SampleService.java
----
package com.acme;

import griffon.core.artifact.GriffonService;
import griffon.metadata.ArtifactProviderFor;
import org.codehaus.griffon.runtime.core.artifact.AbstractGriffonService;

import griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Handler;
import griffon.plugins.hibernate4.Hibernate4Callback;
import org.hibernate.Session;

import javax.annotation.Nonnull;
import javax.inject.Inject;

@ArtifactProviderFor(GriffonService.class)
public class SampleService extends AbstractGriffonService {
    @Inject
    private Hibernate4Handler hibernate4Handler;

    public String getPersonName(final int id) {
         return hibernate4Handler.withHbm4Session(new Hibernate4Callback<String>() {
             public String handle(@Nonnull String sessionFactoryName, @Nonnull Session session) {
                 Person person = (Person) session.createQuery("from Person where id = " + id).uniqueResult();
                 return person != null ? person.getName() : null;
         });
    }
}
----

== Events

The following events will be triggered by `{api_hibernate4_handler}`

Hibernate4ConnectStart(String sessionFactoryName, Map<String, Object> config):: Triggered before connecting to the datasource.
Hibernate4ConfigurationAvailable(Map<String, Object> options):: Triggered after the session's configuration is ready. The map
contains the following keys:
  * configuration; type=org.hibernate.cfg.Configuration
  * dataSourceName; type=java.lang.String
  * sessionConfiguration; type=java.util.Map
Hibernate4ConnectEnd(String sessionFactoryName, Map<String, Object> config, SessionFactory factory):: Triggered after connecting to the datasource.
Hibernate4DisconnectStart(String sessionFactoryName, Map<String, Object> config, SessionFactory factory):: Triggered before disconnecting from the datasource.
Hibernate4DisconnectEnd(String sessionFactoryName, Map<String, Object> config):: Triggered after disconnecting from the datasource.

NOTE: DataSource events may be triggered during connection and disconnection from a `{link_session_factory}`.

== AST Transformation

You can apply the `{api_hibernate4_aware}` AST transformation on any class. This injects the behavior of `{api_hibernate4_handler}`
into said class.

== DSL Descriptors

This plugin provides DSL descriptors for Intellij IDEA and Eclipse (provided you have the Groovy Eclipse plugin installed).
These descriptors are found inside the `griffon-hibernate4-groovy-compile-{project-version}.jar`, with locations

 * dsdl/griffon_hibernate4.dsld
 * gdsl/griffon_hibernate4.gdsl
